# Library-Management-System
Programing - .NET, c#
Library Management System is a project which aims in developing a computerized equipment’s and full-fledged computer software, fulfilling their requirements, so that their valuable data/information can be stored for a longer period with easy accessing and manipulation of the same. The required software and hardware are easily available and easy to work with. This project has many features which are generally not available in normal library management systems.
This project that manages and stores books information electronically according to student’s needs. The system helps both students and library manager to keep a constant track of all the books available in the library. It allows both the admin to search for the student desired book. It becomes necessary for colleges to keep a continuous check on the books issued and returned and even calculate fine. This task if carried out manually will be tedious and includes chances of mistakes. These errors are avoided by allowing the system to keep track of information such as issue date, last date to return the book and even fine information and thus there is no need to keep manual track of this information which thereby avoids chances of mistakes. Library Management System, as described above, can lead to error free, secure, reliable and fast management system. It can assist the user to concentrate on their other activities rather to concentration the record keeping. Thus, it will help organization in better utilization of resources. The organization can maintain computerized records without redundant entries. That means that one need not be distracted by information that is not relevant, while being able to reach the information. Overall, this project of I am developed to help the students as well as staff of library to maintain the library and reduces manual work to a great extent allows smooth flow of library activities by removing chances of errors in the details.
